# nisarg-ieorlab-modelinglab

Optimization Modelling Lab, First day was introduction to python, next 2 labs went for excel where we studied about spreadsheet, did basic analytical and statistical findings, and compared, mean, median, std deviation etc. to bring out insights. Then we worked on Pivot Tables, and VLookup functionalities where we worked on Solar sales data to visualized sales trends, unsold lamps by sku code, cumulative sales and sales day wise trend, and calculating workforce efficiency by finding, unique distributions dates/ difference of max - min distribution date. We also worked with netflix movie dataset to visualize, genre wise, month wise movie trends updated on netflix as well as creating stacked charts for movie languages by month.  Then we moved onto learning python libraries like pandas and numpy. Then we worked on simulation techniques, specifically the famous rat in a maze simulation, where we found the average survival and death rate of rats using simulation techniques. Next we did optimization, using the best search approach to solve multi objective optimization problems, using the pareto frontier. Next we started to model optimization problems to solve using the pyomo framework. Next solved quadratic optimization problems like markowitz optimization problem or policy designing using gurobipy and qpsolver. Next we work on mixed integer linear programming exercises. Then worked on clustering KNN and data analysis on Cleveland heart data.
	IEOR Lab: Lab started with understanding optimization algorithms like gradient descent and Newton's method. Then went on to gradient descent with exact line search and inexact (approximate) line search. Then BFGS algorithm, and gradient descent with scaling methods. Gradient Descent with momentum, Proximal gradient descent, AdaGrad ((Adaptive Gradient Algorithm)), Conjugate Gradient (CG), Nesterov Accelerated Gradient Descent (NAGD). Simulated Annealing. (which I used in Seminar project)
